README.md, before:

# 👋 Hi, I'm Farzan Afringan

**Senior Network Engineer | Software Developer | AI-Driven Infrastructure Specialist**

---

## 🌐 Website & Contact

- **Website:** [farzan.us](https://farzan.us)
- **Biography:** [biography.afringan.com](https://biography.afringan.com)
- **GitHub:** [github.com/farzan-dev13](https://github.com/farzan-dev13)

---



## 🛠 Skills & Tools

**Networking:** Mikrotik (MTCNA, MTCRE, MTCWE, MTCUME, MTCTCE), LPIC-1/2/3, Network+  
**Linux:** Bash scripting, advanced CLI, server administration (Debian, AlmaLinux, Alpine, Ubuntu, CloudLinux, ...)  
**Programming:** Python, GO, C++, Shell, automation tools  
**Hosting:** WHM/cPanel, PRTG, Cacti, SSL, DNS, Mail delivery troubleshooting  
**Hardware:** HP G9 servers, RAID config, iLO, on-site datacenter experience

---


## 🧠 Philosophy

> "Great infrastructure is invisible – until it fails. I build for resilience and clarity."

I'm passionate about building reliable networks, automating with purpose, and growing systems that scale.

---


## 📃 Technical Articles

🐧 [Investigating High Disk I/O in Linux - Using iostat, iotop, and Visual Analysis](https://dev.to/farzandev13/investigating-high-disk-io-in-linux-using-iostat-iotop-and-visual-analysis-571d)
- **Learn how to detect disk bottlenecks and visualize performance with Python tools.**

  <table>
    <tr>
      <td> <a href="https://dev.to/farzandev13/investigating-high-disk-io-in-linux-using-iostat-iotop-and-visual-analysis-571d" target="_blank">
          <img src="https://github.com/farzan-dev13/disk-io-analysis/blob/main/assets/disk2.png" width="400"/>
        </a></td>
    </tr>
  </table>

<br>

🐧 [ How to Investigate a Compromised Linux Server ](https://dev.to/farzandev13/-how-to-investigate-a-compromised-linux-server-1f78)

⚔️ A practical guide to detect intrusions, investigate suspicious processes, users, shell backdoors, and more - using only Linux shell commands.





---

## 📂 Featured Projects


## 🔹 [Investigate-Compromised-Linux-Server](https://github.com/farzan-dev13/investigate-compromised-linux-server)
Practical companion repo for my Dev.to article “How to Investigate a Compromised Linux Server”.
It provides a ready-to-run Bash script, sample outputs, and reference commands.


### ⚙️ [und3rctrl-kit](https://github.com/farzan-dev13/und3rctrl-kit)
  ☢️  Post-exploitation and audit tools written in pure shell script — POSIX, portable, and minimal.  
  
   🪖 [`und3rctrl-kit`](https://github.com/farzan-dev13/und3rctrl-kit) – Lightweight pentest kit
 



### 📘 [list-users-script](https://github.com/farzan-dev13/list-users-script)
A Bash script that displays a clean and detailed list of system users, including their UID, shell, type, login time, and account status.

- `list_users.sh` – Human-friendly system user viewer script


### 🔹 [farzan-linux-tools](https://github.com/farzan-dev13/farzan-linux-tools)  
Practical Linux scripts & documentation for hosting and infrastructure operations.

- `backup.sh` – Automated daily web backup  
- `service-monitor.sh` – Simple service monitoring script  
- `datacenter-notes.md` – Real-world datacenter operations and HP server experience


### 🔹 [post-attack-security-check](https://github.com/farzan-dev13/post-attack-security-check)  
A simple yet powerful Bash script for post-attack investigation on Linux systems.
- `security-check.sh` _ Useful for sysadmins, security teams, and DevOps engineers to detect potential signs of compromise.

---



## ✨ Let's Connect

If you're building tech that needs resilient infrastructure, clean code, and a network-aware mind — I'm open to collaborations and opportunities.

📫 Reach me via [afringan.com](https://afringan.com)

Commit message:

docs: update README with professional bio and article link

README.md, after:

### 🔥 *“I’ve dedicated my life to mastering the art of IT — from the command line to the core of infrastructure.”*

<div align="center">

# 👋 Hi, I'm Farzan Afringan  
**Senior Network Engineer | Software Developer | AI-Driven Infrastructure Specialist**

🌐 Networking  🔐 Cybersecurity  ⚙️ Infrastructure Automation  
☁️ Cloud Architecture  🤖 AI-Driven Systems  💻 Backend Development

I specialize in networking, cybersecurity, infrastructure automation, cloud architecture, AI-driven systems, and backend development —  
combining deep technical expertise with real-world operations to build efficient, scalable, and secure environments.

📖 Get Instant Access to My Latest Articles → [afringan.com](https://afringan.com)

</div>

---

---

## 🌐 Website & Contact

- **Website:** [farzan.us](https://farzan.us)
- **Biography:** [biography.afringan.com](https://biography.afringan.com)
- **GitHub:** [github.com/farzan-dev13](https://github.com/farzan-dev13)

---



## 🛠 Skills & Tools

**Networking:** Mikrotik (MTCNA, MTCRE, MTCWE, MTCUME, MTCTCE), LPIC-1/2/3, Network+  
**Linux:** Bash scripting, advanced CLI, server administration (Debian, AlmaLinux, Alpine, Ubuntu, CloudLinux, ...)  
**Programming:** Python, GO, C++, Shell, automation tools  
**Hosting:** WHM/cPanel, PRTG, Cacti, SSL, DNS, Mail delivery troubleshooting  
**Hardware:** HP G9 servers, RAID config, iLO, on-site datacenter experience

---


## 🧠 Philosophy

> "Great infrastructure is invisible – until it fails. I build for resilience and clarity."

I'm passionate about building reliable networks, automating with purpose, and growing systems that scale.

---


## 📃 Technical Articles

🐧 [Investigating High Disk I/O in Linux - Using iostat, iotop, and Visual Analysis](https://dev.to/farzandev13/investigating-high-disk-io-in-linux-using-iostat-iotop-and-visual-analysis-571d)
- **Learn how to detect disk bottlenecks and visualize performance with Python tools.**

  <table>
    <tr>
      <td> <a href="https://dev.to/farzandev13/investigating-high-disk-io-in-linux-using-iostat-iotop-and-visual-analysis-571d" target="_blank">
          <img src="https://github.com/farzan-dev13/disk-io-analysis/blob/main/assets/disk2.png" width="400"/>
        </a></td>
    </tr>
  </table>

<br>

🐧 [ How to Investigate a Compromised Linux Server ](https://dev.to/farzandev13/-how-to-investigate-a-compromised-linux-server-1f78)

⚔️ A practical guide to detect intrusions, investigate suspicious processes, users, shell backdoors, and more - using only Linux shell commands.





---

## 📂 Featured Projects


## 🔹 [Investigate-Compromised-Linux-Server](https://github.com/farzan-dev13/investigate-compromised-linux-server)
Practical companion repo for my Dev.to article “How to Investigate a Compromised Linux Server”.
It provides a ready-to-run Bash script, sample outputs, and reference commands.


### ⚙️ [und3rctrl-kit](https://github.com/farzan-dev13/und3rctrl-kit)
  ☢️  Post-exploitation and audit tools written in pure shell script — POSIX, portable, and minimal.  
  
   🪖 [`und3rctrl-kit`](https://github.com/farzan-dev13/und3rctrl-kit) – Lightweight pentest kit
 



### 📘 [list-users-script](https://github.com/farzan-dev13/list-users-script)
A Bash script that displays a clean and detailed list of system users, including their UID, shell, type, login time, and account status.

- `list_users.sh` – Human-friendly system user viewer script


### 🔹 [farzan-linux-tools](https://github.com/farzan-dev13/farzan-linux-tools)  
Practical Linux scripts & documentation for hosting and infrastructure operations.

- `backup.sh` – Automated daily web backup  
- `service-monitor.sh` – Simple service monitoring script  
- `datacenter-notes.md` – Real-world datacenter operations and HP server experience


### 🔹 [post-attack-security-check](https://github.com/farzan-dev13/post-attack-security-check)  
A simple yet powerful Bash script for post-attack investigation on Linux systems.
- `security-check.sh` _ Useful for sysadmins, security teams, and DevOps engineers to detect potential signs of compromise.

---



## ✨ Let's Connect

If you're building tech that needs resilient infrastructure, clean code, and a network-aware mind — I'm open to collaborations and opportunities.

📫 Reach me via [afringan.com](https://afringan.com)
